README.md, before:

Bugsnag Notifier for Laravel and Lumen
=====================================

The Bugsnag Notifier for Laravel gives you instant notification of errors and
exceptions in your Laravel PHP applications. We support Laravel 5, Laravel 4, Laravel 3, and Lumen.

[Bugsnag](https://bugsnag.com) captures errors in real-time from your web,
mobile and desktop applications, helping you to understand and resolve them
as fast as possible. [Create a free account](https://bugsnag.com) to start
capturing errors from your applications.

Check out this excellent [Laracasts screencast](https://laracasts.com/lessons/better-error-tracking-with-bugsnag) for a quick overview of how to use Bugsnag with your Laravel apps.

Contents
--------

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Laravel 5.0+](#laravel-50)
    - [Laravel (Older Versions)](#laravel-older-versions)
    - [Lumen](#lumen)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Catching and Reporting Exceptions](#catching-and-reporting-exceptions)
  - [Sending Non-fatal Exceptions](#sending-non-fatal-exceptions)
  - [Configuration Options](#configuration-options)
    - [Error Reporting Levels](#error-reporting-levels)
    - [Callbacks](#callbacks)
- [Demo Applications](#demo-applications)
- [Support](#support)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)


Getting Started
---------------

### Installation

#### Laravel 5.0+

1.  Install the `bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel` package

    ```shell
    $ composer require bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel:1.*
    ```

1. Update `config/app.php` to activate Bugsnag

    ```php
    # Add `BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider` to the `providers` array
    'providers' => array(
        ...
        Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider::class,
    )

    # Add the `BugsnagFacade` to the `aliases` array
    'aliases' => array(
        ...
        'Bugsnag' => Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagFacade::class,
    )
    ```

1. Use the Bugsnag exception handler from `App/Exceptions/Handler.php`.

    ```php
    # DELETE this line
    use Illuminate\Foundation\Exceptions\Handler as ExceptionHandler;
    ```

    ```php
    # ADD this line instead
    use Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagExceptionHandler as ExceptionHandler;
    ```

    After this change, your file should look like this:

    ```php
    <?php namespace App\Exceptions;

    use Exception;
    use Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagExceptionHandler as ExceptionHandler;

    class Handler extends ExceptionHandler {
        ...
    }

    ```

1. Create the configuration file `config/bugsnag.php`:

    ```shell
    $ php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider"
    ```

1. Configure your `api_key` in your `.env` file:

    ```shell
    BUGSNAG_API_KEY=YOUR-API-KEY-HERE
    ```

1.  Optionally, you can add the `notify_release_stages` key to the `config/bugsnag.php` file
    to define which Laravel environments will send Exceptions to Bugsnag.

    ```php
    return array(
        'api_key' => env('BUGSNAG_API_KEY'),
        'notify_release_stages' => ['production', 'staging']
    );
    ```

#### Laravel (Older Versions)

For versions of Laravel before 5.0:

1.  Install the `bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel` package

    ```shell
    $ composer require bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel:1.*
    ```

1. Update app/config/app.php` to activate Bugsnag

    ```php
    # Add `BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider` to the `providers` array
    'providers' => array(
        ...
        'Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider',
    )

    # Add the `BugsnagFacade` to the `aliases` array
    'aliases' => array(
        ...
        'Bugsnag' => 'Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagFacade',
    )
    ```

1.  Generate a template Bugsnag config file

    ```shell
    $ php artisan config:publish bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel
    ```

1.  Update `app/config/packages/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/config.php` with your
    Bugsnag API key:

    ```php
    return array(
        'api_key' => 'YOUR-API-KEY-HERE'
    );
    ```

1.  Optionally, you can add the `notify_release_stages` key to the same file
    above to define which Laravel environments will send Exceptions to Bugsnag.

    ```php
    return array(
        'api_key' => 'YOUR-API-KEY-HERE',
        'notify_release_stages' => ['production', 'staging']
    );
    ```


#### Lumen

1. In `bootstrap/app.php` add the line

    ```php
    $app->register('Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLumenServiceProvider');
    ```

    just before the line

    ```php
    require __DIR__ . '/../app/Http/routes.php';
    ```

2. Change the function `report` in `app/Exceptions/Handler.php` to look like this:

    ```php
    public function report(Exception $e) {
        app('bugsnag')->notifyException($e, []);
        return parent::report($e);
    }
    ```

3. Create a file `config/bugsnag.php` that contains your API key

    ```php
    <?php # config/bugsnag.php

    return array(
        'api_key' => 'YOUR-API-KEY-HERE'
    );
    ```

Usage
-----

### Catching and Reporting Exceptions

Bugsnag works "out of the box" for reporting unhandled exceptions in
Laravel and Lumen apps.


### Sending Non-fatal Exceptions

You can easily tell Bugsnag about non-fatal or caught exceptions by
calling `Bugsnag::notifyException`:

```php
Bugsnag::notifyException(new Exception("Something bad happened"));
```

You can also send custom errors to Bugsnag with `Bugsnag::notifyError`:

```php
Bugsnag::notifyError("ErrorType", "Something bad happened here too");
```

Both of these functions can also be passed an optional `$metaData` parameter,
which should take the following format:

```php
$metaData =  array(
    "user" => array(
        "name" => "James",
        "email" => "james@example.com"
    )
);
```

Additional data can be sent with exceptions as an options hash as detailed in the [Notification Options](docs/Notification Options.md) documentation, including some [options specific to non-fatal exceptions](docs/Notification Options.md#handled-notification-options).


### Configuration Options

The [Bugsnag PHP Client](https://bugsnag.com/docs/notifiers/php)
is available as `Bugsnag`, which allows you to set various
configuration options. These options are listed in the [documentation for Bugsnag PHP](https://bugsnag.com/docs/notifiers/php#additional-options).

#### Error Reporting Levels

By default we'll use the value of `error_reporting` from your `php.ini`
or any value you set at runtime using the `error_reporting(...)` function.

If you'd like to send different levels of errors to Bugsnag, you can call
`setErrorReportingLevel`, for example:

```php
Bugsnag::setErrorReportingLevel(E_ALL & ~E_NOTICE);
```

#### Callbacks

It is often useful to send additional meta-data about your app, such as
information about the currently logged in user, along with any
error or exceptions, to help debug problems.

To send custom data, you should define a *before-notify* function,
adding an array of "tabs" of custom data to the $metaData parameter. For example:

```php
Bugsnag::setBeforeNotifyFunction("before_bugsnag_notify");

function before_bugsnag_notify($error) {
    // Do any custom error handling here

    // Also add some meta data to each error
    $error->setMetaData(array(
        "user" => array(
            "name" => "James",
            "email" => "james@example.com"
        )
    ));
}
```

This example snippet adds a "user" tab to the Bugsnag error report. See the [setBeforeNotifyFunction](https://bugsnag.com/docs/notifiers/php#setbeforenotifyfunction)
documentation on the `bugsnag-php` library for more information.


Demo Applications
-----------------

The [Bugsnag Laravel source repository](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel) includes example applications for [Laravel 4, Laravel 5, and Lumen](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/tree/master/example).

Before running one of the example applications, install the prerequisites:

    brew tap josegonzalez/homebrew-php
    brew install php56 php56-mcrypt composer

Then open the example directory (such as `example/laravel-5.1`) in a terminal and start the server:

	composer install
	php56 artisan serve --port 8004


Support
-------

* [Additional Documentation](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/tree/master/docs)
* [Search open and closed issues](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aissue) for similar problems
* [Report a bug or request a feature](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/issues/new)


Contributing
------------

We'd love you to file issues and send pull requests. The [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/CONTRIBUTING.md) details the process of building and testing `bugsnag-laravel`, as well as the pull request process. Feel free to comment on [existing issues](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/issues) for clarification or starting points.


License
-------

The Bugsnag Laravel notifier is free software released under the MIT License.
See [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for details.

Commit message:

[README] Document environment variable configuration

README.md, after:

Bugsnag Notifier for Laravel and Lumen
=====================================

The Bugsnag Notifier for Laravel gives you instant notification of errors and
exceptions in your Laravel PHP applications. We support Laravel 5, Laravel 4, Laravel 3, and Lumen.

[Bugsnag](https://bugsnag.com) captures errors in real-time from your web,
mobile and desktop applications, helping you to understand and resolve them
as fast as possible. [Create a free account](https://bugsnag.com) to start
capturing errors from your applications.

Check out this excellent [Laracasts screencast](https://laracasts.com/lessons/better-error-tracking-with-bugsnag) for a quick overview of how to use Bugsnag with your Laravel apps.

Contents
--------

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Laravel 5.0+](#laravel-50)
    - [Laravel (Older Versions)](#laravel-older-versions)
    - [Lumen](#lumen)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Catching and Reporting Exceptions](#catching-and-reporting-exceptions)
  - [Sending Non-fatal Exceptions](#sending-non-fatal-exceptions)
  - [Configuration Options](#configuration-options)
    - [Error Reporting Levels](#error-reporting-levels)
    - [Callbacks](#callbacks)
- [Demo Applications](#demo-applications)
- [Support](#support)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)


Getting Started
---------------

### Installation

#### Laravel 5.0+

1.  Install the `bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel` package

    ```shell
    $ composer require bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel:1.*
    ```

1. Update `config/app.php` to activate Bugsnag

    ```php
    # Add `BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider` to the `providers` array
    'providers' => array(
        ...
        Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider::class,
    )

    # Add the `BugsnagFacade` to the `aliases` array
    'aliases' => array(
        ...
        'Bugsnag' => Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagFacade::class,
    )
    ```

1. Use the Bugsnag exception handler from `App/Exceptions/Handler.php`.

    ```php
    # DELETE this line
    use Illuminate\Foundation\Exceptions\Handler as ExceptionHandler;
    ```

    ```php
    # ADD this line instead
    use Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagExceptionHandler as ExceptionHandler;
    ```

    After this change, your file should look like this:

    ```php
    <?php namespace App\Exceptions;

    use Exception;
    use Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagExceptionHandler as ExceptionHandler;

    class Handler extends ExceptionHandler {
        ...
    }

    ```

1. Create the configuration file `config/bugsnag.php`:

    ```shell
    $ php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider"
    ```

1. Configure your `api_key` in your `.env` file:

    ```shell
    BUGSNAG_API_KEY=YOUR-API-KEY-HERE
    ```

1.  Optionally, you can add the `notify_release_stages` key to the `config/bugsnag.php` file
    to define which Laravel environments will send Exceptions to Bugsnag.

    ```php
    return array(
        'api_key' => env('BUGSNAG_API_KEY'),
        'notify_release_stages' => ['production', 'staging']
    );
    ```

#### Laravel (Older Versions)

For versions of Laravel before 5.0:

1.  Install the `bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel` package

    ```shell
    $ composer require bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel:1.*
    ```

1. Update app/config/app.php` to activate Bugsnag

    ```php
    # Add `BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider` to the `providers` array
    'providers' => array(
        ...
        'Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLaravelServiceProvider',
    )

    # Add the `BugsnagFacade` to the `aliases` array
    'aliases' => array(
        ...
        'Bugsnag' => 'Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagFacade',
    )
    ```

1.  Generate a template Bugsnag config file

    ```shell
    $ php artisan config:publish bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel
    ```

1.  Update `app/config/packages/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/config.php` with your
    Bugsnag API key:

    ```php
    return array(
        'api_key' => 'YOUR-API-KEY-HERE'
    );
    ```

1.  Optionally, you can add the `notify_release_stages` key to the same file
    above to define which Laravel environments will send Exceptions to Bugsnag.

    ```php
    return array(
        'api_key' => 'YOUR-API-KEY-HERE',
        'notify_release_stages' => ['production', 'staging']
    );
    ```


#### Lumen

1. In `bootstrap/app.php` add the line

    ```php
    $app->register('Bugsnag\BugsnagLaravel\BugsnagLumenServiceProvider');
    ```

    just before the line

    ```php
    require __DIR__ . '/../app/Http/routes.php';
    ```

2. Change the function `report` in `app/Exceptions/Handler.php` to look like this:

    ```php
    public function report(Exception $e) {
        app('bugsnag')->notifyException($e, []);
        return parent::report($e);
    }
    ```

3. Create a file `config/bugsnag.php` that contains your API key

    ```php
    <?php # config/bugsnag.php

    return array(
        'api_key' => 'YOUR-API-KEY-HERE'
    );
    ```

### Environment Variables

In addition to `BUGSNAG_API_KEY`, other configuration keys can be automatically
populated in `config.php` from your `.env` file:

- `BUGSNAG_API_KEY`: Your API key. You can find your API key on your Bugsnag
  dashboard.
- `BUGSNAG_NOTIFY_RELEASE_STAGES`: Set which release stages should send
  notifications to Bugsnag.
- `BUGSNAG_ENDPOINT`: Set what server to which the Bugsnag notifier should send
  errors. The default is https://notify.bugsnag.com, but for Bugsnag Enterprise
  the endpoint should be the URL of your Bugsnag instance.
- `BUGSNAG_FILTERS`: Set which keys are filtered from metadata is sent to
  Bugsnag.
- `BUGSNAG_PROXY`: Set the configuration options for your server if it is behind
  a proxy server. Additional details are available in the
  [sample configuration](src/Bugsnag/BugsnagLaravel/config.php#L56).


Usage
-----

### Catching and Reporting Exceptions

Bugsnag works "out of the box" for reporting unhandled exceptions in
Laravel and Lumen apps.


### Sending Non-fatal Exceptions

You can easily tell Bugsnag about non-fatal or caught exceptions by
calling `Bugsnag::notifyException`:

```php
Bugsnag::notifyException(new Exception("Something bad happened"));
```

You can also send custom errors to Bugsnag with `Bugsnag::notifyError`:

```php
Bugsnag::notifyError("ErrorType", "Something bad happened here too");
```

Both of these functions can also be passed an optional `$metaData` parameter,
which should take the following format:

```php
$metaData =  array(
    "user" => array(
        "name" => "James",
        "email" => "james@example.com"
    )
);
```

Additional data can be sent with exceptions as an options hash as detailed in the [Notification Options](docs/Notification Options.md) documentation, including some [options specific to non-fatal exceptions](docs/Notification Options.md#handled-notification-options).


### Configuration Options

The [Bugsnag PHP Client](https://bugsnag.com/docs/notifiers/php)
is available as `Bugsnag`, which allows you to set various
configuration options. These options are listed in the [documentation for Bugsnag PHP](https://bugsnag.com/docs/notifiers/php#additional-options).

#### Error Reporting Levels

By default we'll use the value of `error_reporting` from your `php.ini`
or any value you set at runtime using the `error_reporting(...)` function.

If you'd like to send different levels of errors to Bugsnag, you can call
`setErrorReportingLevel`, for example:

```php
Bugsnag::setErrorReportingLevel(E_ALL & ~E_NOTICE);
```

#### Callbacks

It is often useful to send additional meta-data about your app, such as
information about the currently logged in user, along with any
error or exceptions, to help debug problems.

To send custom data, you should define a *before-notify* function,
adding an array of "tabs" of custom data to the $metaData parameter. For example:

```php
Bugsnag::setBeforeNotifyFunction("before_bugsnag_notify");

function before_bugsnag_notify($error) {
    // Do any custom error handling here

    // Also add some meta data to each error
    $error->setMetaData(array(
        "user" => array(
            "name" => "James",
            "email" => "james@example.com"
        )
    ));
}
```

This example snippet adds a "user" tab to the Bugsnag error report. See the [setBeforeNotifyFunction](https://bugsnag.com/docs/notifiers/php#setbeforenotifyfunction)
documentation on the `bugsnag-php` library for more information.


Demo Applications
-----------------

The [Bugsnag Laravel source repository](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel) includes example applications for [Laravel 4, Laravel 5, and Lumen](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/tree/master/example).

Before running one of the example applications, install the prerequisites:

    brew tap josegonzalez/homebrew-php
    brew install php56 php56-mcrypt composer

Then open the example directory (such as `example/laravel-5.1`) in a terminal and start the server:

	composer install
	php56 artisan serve --port 8004


Support
-------

* [Additional Documentation](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/tree/master/docs)
* [Search open and closed issues](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aissue) for similar problems
* [Report a bug or request a feature](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/issues/new)


Contributing
------------

We'd love you to file issues and send pull requests. The [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/CONTRIBUTING.md) details the process of building and testing `bugsnag-laravel`, as well as the pull request process. Feel free to comment on [existing issues](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel/issues) for clarification or starting points.


License
-------

The Bugsnag Laravel notifier is free software released under the MIT License.
See [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for details.
