example/lumen-5.2/readme.md, before:

# Lumen PHP Framework

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/laravel/lumen-framework.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/laravel/lumen-framework)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel/lumen-framework/d/total.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel/lumen-framework)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel/lumen-framework/v/stable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel/lumen-framework)
[![Latest Unstable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel/lumen-framework/v/unstable.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel/lumen-framework)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/laravel/lumen-framework/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/laravel/lumen-framework)

Laravel Lumen is a stunningly fast PHP micro-framework for building web applications with expressive, elegant syntax. We believe development must be an enjoyable, creative experience to be truly fulfilling. Lumen attempts to take the pain out of development by easing common tasks used in the majority of web projects, such as routing, database abstraction, queueing, and caching.

## Official Documentation

Documentation for the framework can be found on the [Lumen website](http://lumen.laravel.com/docs).

## Security Vulnerabilities

If you discover a security vulnerability within Laravel, please send an e-mail to Taylor Otwell at taylor@laravel.com. All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed.

## License

The Lumen framework is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Commit message:

Update 5.2 example to match the other examples

example/lumen-5.2/readme.md, after:

# Bugsnag Lumen 5.2 demo

This Lumen application demonstrates how to use Bugsnag with version 5.2 of the Lumen micro framework for PHP.

## Setup

Try this out with [your own Bugsnag account](https://app.bugsnag.com/user/new), and you'll be able to see how the errors are reported directly in the dashboard.

To get set up, follow the instructions below. Don't forget to replace the placeholder API token with your own!

1. Clone the repo and `cd` into this directory:
    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-laravel.git
    cd bugsnag-laravel/example/lumen-5.2
    ```

1. Install dependencies
    ```shell
    composer install
    ```

1. Ensure that your Bugsnag API Key is set in the `.env` file within the application.  If you do not have a `.env` file present, copy the `.env.example` file to `.env`, and add the `BUGSNAG_API_KEY` environment variable, setting it to your API Key.

1. Run the application.
    ```shell
    php -S localhost:8000 -t public/
    ```

1. View the example page which will be served at: http://localhost:8000

For more information, see [our Lumen documentation](https://docs.bugsnag.com/platforms/php/lumen/).
